We Need to Talk all right um what the
hell hell are we going to talk about
this week
is we're going to talk about this week
let's talk about upward so upward is a
platform for freelancers it's kind of a
part of like this gig economy where
similar to like fiber and stuff you can
get work you can get jobs not full-time
jobs just a gig just like a task and
accomplish it usually they're more
complicated task development marketing
things like that in trying to document
and not create content around building
this marketing agency I've been hearing
so much about am I not in the middle I
don't know I don't even know I've been
hearing so much about a board for so
long it was a combination of like Elance
and one other thing that came together
created some sort of like Captain Planet
Voltron Power Ranger super website of
freelance work so I want to check it out
so when to make a profile and I got
rejected so I made it a better profile
and added a picture rejected linked my
bank account proof that I lived in the
United States and took a bunch of tests
on up work to prove that I have a
serviceable level of English
I mean I'm smart ass but like I can
speak English it's my native language
contrary to popular belief and and would
you would you guess what still rejected
thanks up work so I hacked up work you
should too if you're watching this
here's how what I realize is that every
in the world thinks they can
write and thinks they can do SEO and
thinks they should be paid top dollar
for this what in fact most people suck
at SEO search engine optimization and
they suck at write what it is sorry I'm
not trying to hurt feelings here but
like you
we suck at it it's okay you can get
better what's happened on upward because
there are an overwhelming number of
people pitching SEO and writing services
both since I'm a beast at SEO and at
writing that makes it hard for me to get
into upward so upward automatically
turns down profiles that have those
listed as the primary skill set so I got
in touch with customer service here's
what they told me
their customer service rep while she
wouldn't tell me which type of skill had
the most jobs and the least number of
people applying I just said all right
fine then just tell me what's the most
what's the least popular skill set on
there that seems to be in demand which
you might be thinking yourself right now
that's the same damn question Brendon
but for some reason she answered that
one and she told me it was web and
mobile app development I don't know a
damn thing about development at all but
I went in deleted SEO changed every
mention of SEO and writing to
development change my skills over to
development reapplied would you know
within 30 seconds I got approved to join
up work oh no oh no friend watching this
you're like oh thanks for the three and
a half minute video Brendon that's
that's it that's the story it's not the
end it's not the end of up work no no so
the thing I didn't consider I'll tell
you what I didn't consider in a second
so I got enough work and I started build
my profile out started pitching just
really high-quality jobs I used a really
cool kind of web app called if this than
that - every time a new job was posted
to up work it would email it to me every
job like within my parameters I wanted
the top level of jobs that want an
expert marketers and had the highest pay
and I'm not you know I'm not trying to
do an SEO anybody who wants really high
quality work writing SEO done and they
want to pay 25 bucks absolutely not no
chance I'm working for that however I
did manage to send out a bunch of
pitches really high quality really
over-prepared I tried to test it I tried
to hack it a little bit in there where I
would really write some really nice ones
and some that weren't necessarily a good
we're out more brief and I just said you
know if you want to learn more about
you know what I would do for you message
me back here's what happened not a damn
thing
nothing I got no responses now I can own
part of this maybe it was my pitching
maybe it was something I don't maybe
it's something I did that's fine
let's take me out of the equation here's
what I didn't realize the reason they're
not letting anybody else in for SEO and
writing is because it's almost
impossible to get a steady stream of
work in up work for those things there
are just too many people pitching it for
every SEO job there might be hundreds of
pitches they don't know how to pick how
do you stand out enough on a consistent
basis without already having a
reputation already having all these
entries and ratings and whatever in
there it's almost impossible to break in
so they just stopped admitting people
because they're smarter than me however
if you two want to hack up work that's
how you get in good luck
I guess the silver lining is I don't
really need work from up work I just
want to try it I want to see if I could
get new business from it adds not worth
my time takes way too much time I'd
rather be pitching clients the way that
I'm used to with content marketing and
then actually one-to-one conversations
versus trying to pitch some gig economy
where we have to use the system and
that's just that's a freaking mess so
that's my misadventures as upwork I've
been Brendan Huffer don't forget to work
hard be nice people don't get too lost
trying to create something that matters